We have one last point to cover very quickly,
which is about the modifiers you can put on fields,
methods, or constructors.
The modifiers we can put is going to tell if a
field or a method is static or not, abstract or not; final or not; public,
private, protected,
or even package protected; synchronized or volatile; or native.
Not all those modifies are available on any kind of
element you can find in a class.
For instance, a field cannot be abstract or cannot be synchronized,
a method cannot be volatile,
but all those modifiers are defined for the field method and constructor object.
In fact, when you call getFields,
you will get all the fields whether they are static or not.
If you call the getMethods,
you will get all the methods whether they are abstract or not.
So how can you tell if a method is abstract or if a field is static or final?
Well, there is a method for that which is available on the field,
method, and constructor objects, and that is called getModifiers.
Now if I mention this method here it is because it's not very easy to use it.
There is a special pattern for that.
In fact, this getModifiers method returns an integer on 32 bits.
What can you do with this int?
How can it be used to get the information you need?
Well, what you need to understand is that this modifier integer is,
in fact, seen by the JDK as a field of bits.
Each bit of this modifier integer has a special meaning.
For instance,
the first bit tells you if the element you're looking at is public or not,
the second one will tell you if it's private,
and the third one tells you if it's protected,
and the next one if it's static,
and so on and so forth until all the modifiers have been seen.
So suppose we are getting a reference on the field
from the Person class called name.
We are reading the modifiers from that field.
We get that integer called modifiers.
What we can do is use a bit mask,
modifiers && here is the one written in binary format,
and if the result is true, it means that the field we are looking at is public.
We can do that for each modifier we want to read.
The problem is that it will lead to very hard to read code,
very hard to write also, and also, very error prone.
It would be extremely easy to put an extra 0,
or on the contrary, to miss a 0 between this x and this 1 just to read,
in fact, another modifier.
The right pattern to use is to use the Modifier factory class,
which has a list of factory methods.
Among them there is this isPublic method.
You just pass the int modifiers as a parameter.
It will do the bit masking for you and return the right Boolean.
Using this factory class is not mandatory,
but it will be much simpler and much safer to use it than to write the bit mask yourself.